[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The 1920s are commonly
referred to as The Roaring
'20s.
During this legendary time,
some of the greatest inventions
and discoveries to help humanity
unite became fringe theories.
Game-changers throughout history
spoke of a substance around
us called the ether,
and inspired great minds
to study and invent
ways to harness
the energy of this mysterious
quantum field, or etheric net,
That surrounds us.
As the roar echoes through
this cycle of the '20s,
our understanding of
the invisible forces
in this beautifully connected
and conscious universe
becomes more illuminated.
But how do we connect
through the quantum field?
>> Resonance identification.
Training to gain familiarity
with a certain frequency that
is representative of what you
desire to make a connection to,
and in becoming familiar
with that frequency,
allowing yourself to fall in
to the support of that energy
so that you are not
trying to maintain it,
you are simply riding a
wave, riding a frequency,
a vibration of energy
that is representative
of the connection between us.
This is the mechanism
behind all forms
of channeling or cognition
through consciousness.
>> I want to start with a really
exciting study we did with
trans-channelers.
So there were five
trans-channelers
that we took to Mt.
Shasta, California, and we
rented this beautiful house
and we spent three
days together.
And in those three days, we
had multiple different sessions
with many different
types of channeling.
And it was really
an exploratory study
to see how channeling
worked and to ask
a variety of different research
questions to the channelers
in a channeling state to
see what answers they gave.
>> At times we struggle
with the human vessels.
As you all know, we have
multidimensional lanes
of conversation that we
can express between us
at the same time.
>> One of the things that they
talked about when we asked
about source was that the
channeler and the supposed
channel being were
aspects of each other.
And so this lines
up with this concept
that we're all interconnected
and we're all one.
And so even if it's perceived
as a different personality,
per se, that when you
step back and look
at the big picture of the
wholeness of all of reality,
it is an aspect
of the channeler.
>> When we speak in terms
of channelers or modern day
prophets, we think in terms of
whether they were able to see
the future.
But from a 21st
century perspective,
we may be able to dispense
with terms like "future"
in terms of how we understand
past, present, future,
and think more in terms of there
being an infinitude of events
that go outside of linear
time, which is really what
our primary
interpretations of quantum
physics, our models
like string theory
give us, that everything
is happening all at once.
So it may be that the
clairvoyant is not
gleaning the future so much as
he or she is gleaning what's
actually going on infinitely
and all at once in the cosmos
or the world around us.
>> The universe has great
consciousness that we can all
work with and work inside of.
And you can think of
our little consciousness
that we have here
is just permutations
of that great universal
consciousness.
And with the universal
consciousness everywhere
all the time, the Akashic
records is its memory.
Now, the thing that's
cool about the memory
of the universal
consciousness is
it doesn't know time or space.
It's completely nonlinear.
So you have access to the
memory of the universe
just by tuning into it.
And that's an interesting
way of using channeling.
>> One of the most unexpected
and radical discoveries
of the early quantum
physicists was something called
nonlocality, which means that
to understand what they were
discovering required the entire
universe to exist and evolve
as a unified entity with no
limitations in space and time.
And yet, we experience
our universe
as being founded
on space and time
where within space and time,
there is a cosmic speed limit,
it's called the speed of light.
So there was a huge debate
going on between the quantum
physicists and people like
Albert Einstein as to who
was right.
And the answer is,
they were both right.
Because if we go back
to the very first moment
of our universe that
I sometimes refer
to as the first moment
not of the Big Bang,
but of a Big Breath, a
space began to expand.
Time began to flow
in one way only.
And what that meant
is our entire universe
had this experience
of evolution where
one moment followed the
next for 13.8 billion years.
>> The fact is, we've known
through Einstein's theory
of relativity, for example,
that time itself is conditional.
Linear time itself is
really a necessary illusion
that we five-sensory
beings used to navigate
our way through life,
to get through life.
We know from different
interpretations of quantum
mechanics that we very
probably live in a reality
where an infinitude of events
are playing out constantly,
and they become localized
only through perspective.
But we through different
models of time,
space, speed, that
we are probably
going to have to come to
terms with some conception
of interdimensionality, to
understand the things that we
are observing in
our world today.
>> As a scientist on your
planet might be prone to do,
attempt to reduce everything
to its simplest form--
in other words, they are seeking
the idea of a unified field
theory--
by attempting to unite and
connect how all of what
appears to be multiple
forces or effects
are actually simply
different expressions
of one single effect.
Well, you have to include
the idea of reducing
time and space as well.
So the full reduction of space
is into a dimensionless point.
The full reduction of time
is into a timeless now.
Therefore, everything that
exists everywhere, everywhen,
no matter what you call
past, present, or future,
all exists simultaneously
in that dimensionless space,
in that timeless now, and
therefore, is easily accessible
anywhere, any when, because
every single location
and every single time frame
is simply another perspective
of the same moment
and the same place,
just from a different
point of view.
>> But it makes sense to me that
if we were all one at the Big
Bang and we expanded
out from there,
that we would still
be connected somehow.
And that
interconnectedness, or what
I've called the Big C, which
is the fundamental nature
of reality, when you
hold that world view,
the phenomenon that we
are experiencing totally
makes sense.
Not only am I personally
experiencing this phenomenon,
but I see it all around me.
It's incredibly common.
All the surveys
that we've done have
shown that almost everybody
has had at least one channeling
experience.
There's been surveys done
all over the world showing
very high percentages
of people that
have had these experiences.
>> Many scientists have had
periods of time which were
so intense that they felt they
were on the receiving of great,
great insights and wisdom.
Albert Einstein had his
year in miracles in 1905.
And Isaac Newton
had his in 1666.
Newton, in that time, came
up with incredible ways
of describing mathematically
what he was discovering,
but he made
incredible discoveries
around the nature of light and
optics, and gravity, of course.
Einstein, in his
year in miracles,
were realizing the
relativity of space and time
and connecting them together
in absolute space-time.
So both of them recognized that
they were receiving this higher
vibrational wisdom.
They were channeling it.
>> Another powerful physicist
that some believe was tapping
into higher forms of
information was Nikola Tesla.
In the late 1800s, he created
the basic system of radio.
He went on to invent
several ways to harness
and transmit energy and
shifted from employee
to rival in Thomas Edison's
growing energy empire.
>> Both Nikola Tesla and Thomas
Edison were interested in this
idea of invisible forces.
What else is electricity?
What else are X-rays?
What else are radio waves?
What else are wireless signals?
And so both inventors believed
that our world was suffused
with invisible
forces and energies
and these weren't
limited to things
that could be used
to power a locomotive
or send an electrical
signal through a wire,
but also had a
psychical dimension.
So both were very interested
in extra physical dimension
of life.
And Edison, back
in his days when
he was part of the
early Theosophical
Society in New York
City in the 1870s,
disclosed to some
members that he
was attempting to create a
device that could function
as a kind of spiritual telegraph
and used to communicate
with the other side.
>> Tesla, he was being guided.
He was channeling, if
you would, just ask each
and every one of you has a
brilliance, significant gift
that is unique to you alone.
And that's what we're
imploring you to do.
>> The deeper we dive
into the quantum well,
the more it becomes clear.
This universe is supremely
sophisticated in design
and structure.
But there's one theory
that may help us understand
how cosmic connections work.
>> I'm not a physicist, but
I love learning about quantum
physics and this whole
concept of entanglement.
So at the Big Bang, we
were all interconnected.
And it expanded from there.
And so at one point, we were
all entangled with each other.
And so now they have
demonstrated repeatedly
in laboratory environments the
entanglement of photons where
you take two photons and
entangle them, take one of them
halfway across the world,
when you move the spin of one,
the other one spins in the
same direction instantaneously.
That's absolutely incredible.
And they've done that with a
variety of different things
now.
Not just photons with things--
larger molecules
called buckyballs,
and even with diamonds.
So if you take this
concept of entanglement
and take it to a macroscale,
it leaves a lot more room
for these phenomenon
of channeling.
>> Quantum physics discovered
that our universe can only
exist and evolve as a
nonlocally unified entity.
That means that on one
side of the universe,
something can happen
that is synchronistic
only mirrored at the other
side of the universe.
It's sometimes called
quantum entanglement.
But the problem with
that is it suggests
that it only happens at a tiny
scale of the quantum world.
Whereas in 2018, a
team that MIT actually
were able to entangle
photons of light
in the laboratory with starlight
coming from 600 light years
away, and that
entanglement, which
means that they act
as one, was triggered
by the light from something
called a quasar over 12 billion
light years away.
So what they're able
to experimentally show
is that such entanglement is
the breadth of our universe.
It's an innate phenomenon,
an attribute of our universe.
That's why channeling works.
That's why supernormal
phenomena work.
That's why all that
we're talking about
is natural phenomena.
They're natural because our
universe exists and evolves
in this way.
>> Basically, channeling is what
they are discovering with this
communication of one atom being
able to transmit information
to an atom in another star, in
another solar system in just
less than a second
because they are the same,
they became the same.
And even if they are
in different planets
and different solar systems
and different galaxies,
they are entangled,
they are connected.
That's quantum mechanics
and all these things
that scientists were
trying to explain.
So we are also atoms.
We are made of atoms, particles.
So we can also
become someone else
and receive a message
from another solar system
in less than a second.
>> Theo says the quantum
field is all around us.
It's just like electricity.
It's always been all around us.
Still is.
And that it just took
away, like for electricity,
to harness that and to
make it useful to us.
And it works the same
way all over the world.
Turning on lights and computers
and all that kind of thing.
But it's not limited to
that conduit in your house
or business or whatever it is.
It exists all the time.
Well, the quantum
field, the connectivity
that we're talking
about, we are just
learning now how to be
the conduit for that
and tap into it.
>> I think it's hard for the
human mind to grasp that we can
all be one and yet still
feel very separate and unique
and distinct.
In the Mt.
Shasta study, they talked about
the electromagnetic spectrum.
So we know that
spectrum is very wide
and has many, many
different frequencies in it,
from visible light to infrared
to ultraviolet, et cetera.
But when you think about that
spectrum, it's all one thing.
But if you took one
frequency of that spectrum,
that frequency would have very
unique characteristics to it.
So we can liken this
human experience
as Helane being
the one frequency
on that electromagnetic
spectrum.
So I feel unique, I feel
different, I feel separate,
and yet I'm still part of this
vast, wide electromagnetic
spectrum that goes into
infinity on both sides.
>> The word aura has been used
to describe an energetic field
around the human body.
It is known to be created by
a measurable electromagnetic
energy, as well as the
emanation of a more
ethereal or a subtle energy.
The National Institute of Health
has named this mysterious aura
the human biofield.
>> Sometimes during
a channeling,
electronics in a room,
like recorders and cameras,
may be affected by
the channeling itself.
And this is because when I'm
making a connection to Bashar,
I'm raising my frequency
to match his frequency
a little bit closer.
But like every human, I have
an electromagnetic field.
And therefore, my
electromagnetic field
is affected by that,
the frequency changes,
and it can start interacting
with electronic equipment
in the area.
And that can sometimes cause
things to just completely shut
down.
Whatever happens in
the channel's body's
electromagnetic field is simply
the result of whatever state
of being is representative
of the information
or the state of our connection
happens to be at that moment.
It's not something I
have to intentionally do.
When we did the EEG experiment
in the documentary "First
Contact," we did that
specifically not only
to demystify the
idea of channeling
as being an unusual
thing, but to find out
what is really going
on in the brain
when I'm in a channeling
state or anyone
is in a channeling state?
And we discovered some
very profound differences
occur in that state
from what you would call
your normal daily waking state.
One of the most profound
differences that affected me
a lot was to find
out that there are
certain centers
in the brain that
are responsible for
processing what I
would consider my personality.
And that during the channeling,
those all shut down.
So if the parts of my brain that
process my personality when I'm
awake shut off, who's talking?
In the beginning
of the channeling,
the channel was capable of
holding onto, shall we say,
or bringing through the idea of
about 1.5 to 2% of our energy.
In the ensuing years following
the initiation of contact
with the channel, it
was thus then capable
in the channel's body of
expressing our energy up
to about 3%.
On average now, we are
expressing about 5%
of our total energy.
>> So we're looking at a picture
of Darryl's baseline EEG.
And what I've done is to
record Darryl's baseline when
he is not channeling and
compare that to his EEG
when he is channeling.
Now here is a picture of
Darryl's raw EEG baseline again
in which we see a very
rounded and rhythmic
dominant frequency, we call
it, in the posterior cortex
or the back of the head.
And this is a good finding,
it's a positive finding
because it tells us that
Darryl's nervous system is
stable.
And also, that he
has what we call
good thalamocortical
functioning.
And this is a common
feature, a characteristic
that is found in individuals
who are peak performers.
So here, we have a picture
of what disconnects
when Darryl begins to channel.
And you can see the areas in
blue, the functional Brodmann
areas, we call them, that are
not used when he is channeling.
And it appears
that he disconnects
from his personal
sense of self, he
disconnects from the
experience of pain.
Now what increases when
he begins to channel
is, first of all,
his processing speed.
And processing speed is a
very interesting phenomenon
because what happens is it
develops early in childhood.
And by about the
age of five or six,
and certainly nine or 10
maximum, we reach a set point,
and this set point
doesn't usually
change during the lifetime.
And in Daryl's case,
it actually went up
when he began to channel.
And it increased
when he listened.
The actual frequency
of the processing speed
was tuned to an exact
frequency all over the brain.
>> You have to realize that
the only reason the set point
changes is because
the connection with us
and our vibrations as the
channel takes on a new
frequency means that the channel
is a different person with
a different set point.
Remember, all change is actually
a shift to a different reality,
a different version of yourself.
You may think it's the
same person, but it's not.
Literally, it's not.
Therefore the
change in set point
actually represents a
measurable aspect of the fact
that a person has become
a different person
in a different reality
and is now operating
on a different frequency.
>> To summarize sort of what
I found here in Darryl's brain
in comparison with
the channeling state,
he starts from a very
stable resting state.
And then he experiences changes
that statistically less than 1%
of the population would
experience in the same way.
He increases his
processing speed.
He tunes it exquisitely to one
frequency all over the brain.
And then he's able to
create a resonant holding
environment for the peak
performance or the channeling
to happen.
He pumps energy into
the right frontal cortex
and the right auditory cortex
so that he can empathize
and hear very, very clearly.
And because of the gamma
frequencies in the anterior
cingulate, he can shift gears.
He'll be able to shift gears and
navigate cognition, thoughts,
and emotions very,
very flexibly.
And he'll be able to interpret
from a higher perspective,
from a more evolved
place in his mind,
much like from the
highest mountaintop.
>> We wanted to take a little
bit more of a scientific
approach.
Again, not to prove
anything to anybody,
but just to show that it can
be discovered through a more
scientific approach that there
are different things happening,
that altered states
are real in channeling,
and that something
profoundly different
is happening in people when
they get into that state.
Whatever you want to believe
that is is up to you,
but something
different is happening.
>> So with my scientist hat on,
there's no tool that we have
today that can definitively
say what the source is.
So when we talk about
proving what the source is
and if this really is
a nonphysical being,
a separate physical
personality, I
can't really definitively
say that one way or another
from a scientific perspective.
We are looking to develop
objective tools where
we can tell if there is a
different frequency in the room
or some sort of shift
in the environment,
and yet today, we can't really
prove one way or another
if it actually is a
discarnate being that's
entering the person's body.
From a personal
perspective, my felt sense
when I'm actually
doing this phenomenon
is that the sensations
are different when it's,
say, my grandmother supposedly
talking to my mother
or when it's my main
guide that's supposedly
talking through me or some
other supposed being talking
through me that
energetically it feels
very different in my body.
My voice is different, my
mannerisms are different,
and it feels distinct.
>> As more and more humans
consciously connect with other
dimensions, what messages will
be delivered to help empower
our understanding of the
vast and expanding cosmos?
>> The Earth is only one
choice of incarnation.
It's only one choice
out of billions
of choices and
billions of planets
that are not unlike Earth.
And science is bringing
that forth as we speak.
A recognition of
this, if you would.
There are also, as we speak,
12 dimensions about the Earth.
They've already discovered 11.
The 12th will be a
discovery as well soon.
So all of this is
broadening the aperture
of knowledge of the human
experience on Earth,
but not limited to Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]